


@dfn{SQLtutor} is a web based interactive tutorial of @emph{Structured
Query Language} (SQL).  The project consists in part of a C++ program
of the same name @file{sqltutor} released under the GNU General Public
License (GNU GPL).  The @file{sqltutor} program is a CGI script that
selects SQL questions from its database, checks the answers and
evaluates the final score.  The second part of the project is a free
collection of SQL questions and answers representing SQL
tutorials. SQLtutor enables to run one or more tutorials in different
languages from a single database.  SQLtutor is implemented on the top
of a relational database system PostgreSQL.

You can try SQLtutor online from

@url{http://sqltutor.fsv.cvut.cz/cgi-bin/sqltutor}

@noindent First, a tutorial must be selected from the opening 
page and started. A series of tutorial questions follows in a simple
dialog. When finished SQLtutor displays final evaluation with the
review of all questions asked during the session together with user's
SQL queries and correct answers for wrong solutions.


@section SQLzoo

SQLtutor was inspired by an interactive tutorial SQLzoo by Andrew
Cumming from the School of Computing, Napier University, Edinburg,
UK. Implementation of the database and the @file{sqltutor} program is
not dependent neither derived from the SQLzoo tutorial.

English SQLzoo tutorial distributed with SQLtutor is based on the
collection of SQL questions and answers and datasets from
@url{http://sqlzoo.net/}. We would like to thank Andrew Cumming for
his kind approval to use his data and tutorials in our project.
